---
title: Component Communication
createTime: 2025/01/18 07:07:27
permalink: /learn/vue/BAkBN/
author: Jack
tags:
  - Vue3
  - Component Communication

description: 
---

## Common Ways of Component Communication

### Parent-Child Components: props and emit

### Sibling Components: Event Bus

  Event bus, i.e., the concept of message subscription and publishing mode

### Cross-Level Components: provide and inject

  Refer to [example](#provice-inject)

### State Container

### Global State Management: Vuex, Pinia

  For more introduction to Pinia, refer to [here](#pinia-part)


## Lifecycle Hooks of Options API {#lifecycle}

**beforeCreate**  Before the instance is created, data and events have not been initialized yet, and data and props cannot be accessed at this stage.

**created** The component instance has been created, and data and events have been set.

**beforeMount**  The component is about to be mounted to the DOM, but rendering has not been completed yet. At this time, the template has been parsed.

**mounted** The component has been mounted, and the DOM has been generated. At this time, operations interacting with the DOM can be performed.

**beforeUpdate** The component's data has changed, but the view has not been updated yet.

**updated** The component's data has changed, and the view has been updated.

**activated** The component is activated (e.g., components wrapped with keep-alive). This hook only applies to components cached by keep-alive.

**deactivated** The component is deactivated (components cached in keep-alive will trigger this hook). Used to clean up cached components.

**beforeUnmount** The component instance is about to be destroyed, but the DOM has not been removed yet.

**unmounted** The component instance has been destroyed, and the DOM has been removed. Used to perform cleanup operations.

**errorCaptured** Capture and handle errors from child components. This hook is triggered when an error occurs in a child component, allowing you to capture and handle the error to prevent it from propagating to the parent component.

## Lifecycle Hooks of Composition API

- Use lifecycle hooks in the setup function, and these hooks are called with the on prefix. The hook functions are basically the same as those in the Options API.
- The created and beforeCreate hooks no longer exist in the Composition API of Vue 3. The corresponding logic can be handled in the setup function.


