---
itle: Vue Performance Optimization
createTime: 2025/01/18 07:12:08
permalink: /learn/vue/rm7vPeEB19sNf4Y/
author: Jack
tags:
  - Vue3
  - Performance Optimization

description: description
---

## Optimization of Reactive System

1. **`Avoid Unnecessary Reactive Data`** 
2. **`Use computed and Avoid Unnecessary watch`**: Try to avoid unnecessary operations in watch, and avoid triggering watch execution immediately during initialization. [watchEffect will execute immediately](/learn/vue/27zpUq4W6kPrGTR5dz/#watch&watchEffect)
3. **`Selective Access to Reactive Objects`**: When you need to get specific properties from a reactive object, try to manually destructure the properties instead of passing the entire object. This can avoid unnecessary dependency tracking.

## Component Rendering Optimization

1. **`Avoid Unnecessary Rendering`**  
    - Use v-show instead of v-if
    - Use key to optimize v-for rendering
2. **`Avoid Frequent Re-rendering of Components`** 
    - v-memo: Use v-memo to cache the rendering result of components or elements, avoiding re-rendering when dependencies do not change.
    - Manually control re-rendering: Control whether the component needs to be updated through watch, computed, or the lazy feature of ref, avoiding redundant re-rendering.
    - v-once: If a part of the view only needs to be rendered once, or some data does not change frequently, you can use v-once to render that part of the view, avoiding re-rendering during each update.
3. **`Split Large Components`** 
    For larger components, load them on demand to avoid loading too much content during initial rendering.
4. **`<KeepAlive> and Dynamic Components`**
    Use `<keep-alive>` to cache component states on dynamically loaded pages or components, avoiding repeated rendering. This is especially useful for caching the state of some pages when switching routes.

## Asynchronous Loading and Code Splitting

1. **`Lazy Loading Routes`**
    ```JavaScript
    const routes = [
      {
        path: '/about',
        component: () => import('./views/About.vue'),
      },
    ];
    ```
2. **`Lazy Loading Components`**
    ```JavaScript
    const AsyncComponent = defineAsyncComponent(() => import('./components/AsyncComponent.vue'));
    ```
    For infrequently used components, delay loading them through defineAsyncComponent, loading the components only when needed.

## State Management Optimization

1. **`Local State Management`**
    Use modular state management to divide the application's state into multiple small stores, rather than putting all the state in one large global store. This helps improve performance and maintainability.
2. **`Avoid Multiple Mutation Submissions`**
    In Vuex or Pinia, avoid multiple state updates during rendering. Try to merge multiple state modification operations into one batch submission to reduce the number of renderings.

## Event and Method Optimization

1. **`Event Delegation`**: Minimize binding events on each child element by binding events to the parent element through event delegation, reducing the number of event listeners.
2. **`Use debounce or throttle to Optimize Frequently Triggered Events`**

## Image and Resource Optimization

1. **`Lazy Loading Images`**
2. **`Use WebP Format`**

## Caching and Server-Side Rendering (SSR)

1. **`Caching Strategy`**
   For content that does not change frequently, use client-side caching or server-side caching techniques to reduce repeated requests and improve response speed.
2. **`Server-Side Rendering (SSR) and Static Site Generation (SSG)`**